Now that you understand exactly how
container queries are working in terms
of size and so forth, let's take a look
at how they work in terms of style.
And what I would like to do now is I
would like to set up a dark theme for
my web page.
So you've probably done this kind of thing
before where there's maybe a checkbox
on the page and it's light theme by
default, you check the checkbox and
it turns into a dark theme.
We are gonna do that as well, and we're
gonna do it using container style queries.
So let's get started with that.
We are going to start here with
our example, as you see it here.
And the first thing that
I'm going to do is,
as you take a look at our HTML up here on
the top, we have our card-container and
we have a series of cards afterwards,
right?
Okay, so there's all of our cards.
So far so good.
Around these particular cards,
what we're going to do,
is we are going to add a div
with a class of color-test, and
we're doing this, of course,
because you can't query the container.
And I'm going to want to
query my card-container here.
So I'm going to put in, color-test is
gonna be the div that comes first.
color-container is the div that comes
second, and we'll close the div,
of course, down here at the bottom.
Alright, so that's the first thing to do.
Inside of our div,
we are going to add a checkbox.
So the way to do this with accessibility
is to use your label element.
So if you have never made accessible
form elements, here's how you do it.
We're gonna start with a label element.
That's what I thought.
We start with the label element, and
we are going to give this
an input type of checkbox.
And we're gonna give
this an id of theme-box.
And then I'm going to say,
check for dark theme, Okay?
And by putting the label
element around your checkbox,
you make the whole thing clickable.
So I do not have to just hover over and
check that tiny little box,
I can also hover over the label and
check It here as well, make sense?
And I kinda think I've
put it in the wrong spot.
I think I actually wanna put this
checkbox inside of color-test.
There we go.
Or even outside of color-test.
Let's put it outside of color-test.
Let's put it just after the h1,
Because that's prettier, okay?
So so
far we've got a checkbox here in place.
After that we have our div with a class
of color-test, our div with a class of
card-container, and then we have
a whole bunch of cards, awesome.
In JavaScript now,
we're gonna add a little bit of code.
So in the JavaScript panel,
if you uncomment what's there,
I will tell you all about it.
Okay, so in the JavaScript box,
we are doing the following.
First of all,
we are gonna set up a couple of variables.
I'm gonna call them checkbox, and
I'm gonna call them color-test.
First thing I'm gonna do is check the
value of color box, and that is the id of
theme-box that happens to correspond
with the checkbox that I just made.
So we're gonna do a query on color-test,
and
I'm gonna show you what we're going to
do with color-test here in a moment.
We're gonna setup a custom
property on that,
as soon as I'm done going
through this JavaScript.
Then we're going to add an event listener.
So we wanna listen for the checkbox,
and we're just listening for change.
So we don't care if it's checked or it's
not checked, we're just gonna listen for
when it happens to change in time.
When it does change,
we're gonna run the color-theme function.
And the color-theme
function looks like this.
So if the checkbox is already checked,
okay, or
if it's not checked,
we're going to set it to false.
And if it is checked,
we're gonna set it to true.
Basically, we're just making
a toggle here, that happens.
And we're switching the value
from false to true.
You'll notice that we're testing for
a thing called --dark-theme, yes?
That is a CSS property.
So we're actually using JavaScript to
change the value of a CSS custom property,
the CSS variable in this context.
So very,
very cool way of using JavaScript.
What I love about this particular
piece of JavaScript is this
is what JavaScript is for, everybody.
This is not for styling.
This is for, let's listen to the page.
When things change on the page,
let's make something happen.
And it leaves all of
the styling inside of our CSS.
So I am a very happy person today to
write this particular JavaScript.
And so when we go back into our CSS,
what I'm going to do is the following.
I am going to make these changes.
I'm going to my color-container, we are
going to set that variable --dark-theme,
false, okay?
So this is the variable that we're gonna
call down here in our JavaScript later,
okay?
That's what we're querying
up here at the beginning.
We're changing the value of it
down here a little bit later.
Make sense?
Okay, and if you just do this watch so
far and you put this in DevTools,
you'll see that this is in fact working.
The box is changing from false
to true in terms of its value,
whether it's checked or not, okay?
And then now to this,
We will add our container style query.
So @container style(--dark-theme) is true.
So if it's true, what do we wanna do?
We're gonna say .color-container
.
And now, when we check our checkbox,
this should be working.
>> [CROSSTALK]
>> Is that what I did?
>> Yeah, it's supposed to be [INAUDIBLE].
>> And above.
>> Here we go.
Okay, or color tests.
So what I did was I put
the two things together.
That's what I did.
Okay, color-test.
Thank you.
So now it's gonna work.
No, that's the container for
the container query.
So it is card-container.
>> Line two also color-container or
card-container?
>> It is,
I'm very consistent in my errors.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Okay, here we go.
Now it's totally gonna work.
There we go, okay?
And if we write even better HTML,
we can get the whole page to do this,
but I haven't written better
HTML at the moment, okay?
In my answer,
I have it working on the whole page.
Okay, so make sure that you actually
write the names of your classes and
the places you should write
the names of your classes.
So this should be card-container
is set to --dark-theme: false, and
then inside of your container query,
the card-container will be set to
black and white for the display.
That's what happened here at the end.
And we can take a look at the finished
version of this codepen and
you'll see that we've got it
working on the whole page.
Just a little bit of restructuring
here of my HTML, okay?
How cool is that?
Okay, so we're actually using these
variables here inside of CSS,
something we created on the fly,
this thing called dark-theme, which as
we change the value with our checkbox,
that's JavaScript monitoring that,
then we can just load in a different
set of colors here for the page.
So we go from black text and
white background to the reverse.
You don't always necessarily
need JavaScript involved for
this particular container query to work,
you don't necessarily
need to have custom properties
that are equal to false and true.
As I said, you could have,
say, a custom color here.
My custom color of primary
color has a value of red,
then execute this particular style query.
That would totally work, okay?
That would be fine.
You don't have to do things with false and
true, but
it was a really convenient thing
to do in this particular example.